[Music]
now let's look at what we can do to
prepare as governments and as
individuals what about testing let's go
straight to another question because
Richard from South London asked I have
coronavirus like symptoms and went to a
London hospital to be tested but I was
turned away so I hadn't been in contact
with an infected person or been to an
infected area what should I do now Jake
well we have clear criteria for testing
loss everybody needs testing we're
testing is indicated we're doing
everything we can to make that easily
available through different options such
as testing in a hospital sometimes
testing in community centres special
areas of the community and occasionally
testing at home and doing drive-through
testing as well so it's really about
whether you need testing and then making
testing available
you mentioned drive-through try seeing
these the pictures of that actually
happening in Seattle when you look at
testing it is fascinating the figures
South Korea has tested about three and a
half thousand people per million the US
the figure is five per million just how
critical is testing testing is very
important and the amount of testing does
vary between countries in the UK we are
increasing our testing capacity but
again it's important about who is tested
and that may change over time
all right Jake stay with me because I've
got more questions for you but I want to
show you this piece because should the
West look to the east as a model of how
best to prepare well from Singapore the
BBC's Mariko Orie has been monitoring
the Asian response when the corona virus
outbreak started in China last December
its Asian neighbors were the first to
react let's take a look at various
measures taken by the governments in the
region
[Music]
in China it's a lockdown
it took Beijing a few weeks to react and
when they did the authorities took a
harsh approach which affected nearly 60
million people the corona virus outbreak
brought back memories of SARS in Hong
Kong officials there were quick to
respond by shutting down schools critics
though wanted the government to do more
and prevent the arrival of Chinese
visitors and that's exactly what the
government here in Singapore did it was
one of the first countries to shut its
borders to China it's also present place
a highly sophisticated contact tracing
procedure to track down people who'd
been around patients who tested positive
that sounds manageable with a population
of just over five and a half million
[Music]
compared to South Korea whose population
is over 50 million Seoul is mass testing
anyone with flu-like symptoms but
critics say its approach has overwhelmed
its hospitals so there you have it
lockdown school closures contact tracing
an aggressive testing if you put them
all together
maybe that's the perfect approach to
containing corona virus but how
difficult would it be to carry it out in
the rest of the world Jake answer that
question straight away that model from
China and that region how easy or not to
replicate in the West every country will
have different solutions but the
principals are going to be the same
which is really about spreading limiting
the spread of infections slowing down
the spread of infection and it's going
to involve a package of measures so
those that have been mentioned are
important but they may be implemented at
different times by different countries
according to what the risks are in those
countries at that time and also whether
it's proportionate to the risk straight
to another question this time from Sandy
via Twitter who asked can you actually
catch this twice
we are still collecting evidence this is
a new disease but we do not think that
once you've had coronavirus infection
that you are at an immediate risk of
getting infected again so we think that
the infection will give you some
immunity what's unclear is how long that
immunity will last for all of the
countries in their response looking at
particular vulnerable groups in terms of
the elderly one particular group and we
know the statistics are much higher in
that particular group and that dynamic
what is the best advice say if we want
to help a neighbor go round take food is
that help or is that potentially
exposing them to be infected so we do
need to look out for older members of
society we know they are at increased
risk but you need to do that properly
and carefully so if you have symptoms of
a respiratory illness then you shouldn't
be going and visiting elderly people you
should be trying to avoid that as a
neighbor for example but there are other
ways that we can help our older members
of society without putting them at risk
so making sure that they have food
delivered for example is a good way and
just keeping in touch with them if they
are at home to make sure that they're
feeling okay lots of different ways but
close contact that is the thing to avoid
absolutely well let's look at another
aspect of being prepared is having
enough to actually live on at home and
in the office we've seen stockpiling in
pockets around the world with hand
sanitizers top of people's list Italy
has seen a run on pasta which appears to
have confirmed the notion that penne
without ridges is the least popular in
Switzerland canned goods and baby food
are flying off the shelves panic buying
there has been named hamster - after the
cheap stuffing rodent and lots of
examples of shoppers hoarding toilet
paper with fights breaking out in
supermarkets in Australia one newspaper
even printed listen to this extra blank
pages for readers in case of emergencies
well - Healy is with me and are just a
few examples from around the world we'll
skip over that last bit but in terms of
and necessity because of course
government advices that there's no need
to do this is government advice but you
mentioned it they're being prepared it's
human nature if we think they're going
to be shortages if they go to be
problems for us to get to the shops and
get what we need you are going to stock
up and you can see there exactly what
people are doing it's the you know
non-perishable foods it's the toilet
rolls there's also of course pictures of
empty you know shells where soap should
be as well it supportive that is human
nature but on the other hand as you say
governments are talking to supermarkets
they're talking to manufacturers I know
of one manufactured for example of
disinfectants producing more of those
lines this is 2020 they know what
they're doing they have a very clear eye
on what patterns are going on and
frankly you know don't panic too much
only buy what you need when you look at
those pictures of empty supermarket
shelves what what people do before they
bought all that soap they wash it and it
is extraordinary because the advice is
so clear just this morning I drove past
a chemist and I had to do a double-take
though there was a queue that went right
around the corner and up the hill I'd
never seen anything like that before no
absolutely and you hear reports of
people going in and supply you know
there is a delivery of ten bottles of
hand sanitizer and they're buying eight
of them what are you going to do with
those eight bottles and that creates
further panic as well it is human nature
but as I say supermarkets are incredibly
sophisticated
they have forecasters out there they
know other gaps are going to be we have
very agile manufacturers out there who
can switch production so don't panic too
much